In this lecture, you'll learn about SD one, which is part of Cisco's DNA digital network architecture,
looking at the traditional way to do our WAN deployments first.
So traditionally it should always one edge is going to be configured individually, one at a time,
and we leads to the configuration not being standardized organization wide.
The focus is on the basic connectivity, not required performance for applications.
And because we're using particular hardware and configuration tied to a particular service provider
in each location is typically difficult if we want to migrate to another one service.
The next is to look at how SD wan improves upon not just Google acquired the other company Pela in 2017
to enhance Cisco's existing SD wan solution, which was previously called I1 for Intelligent One Eshley
one provides automated its share of wine connectivity between sites and the monitoring on failover is
Alemi as well.
So because SD one is part of Cisco's digital network architecture, the whole part of that is to give
centralized control of our operations and for everything to be automated rather than the old way of
configuring our devices one by one.
And with SD Wan as well as set up the monitoring on feel all being automated, the traffic flow control
is application aware.
So if on a particular site, if it is got multiple wine connections, see one going over the Internet,
another one going over emplace.
Well, based on your different applications needs, SD Wan can automatically send particular application
traffic over the most suitable wine connection.
The benefits that we get with Iran, we get that mean it's standardized set up of connectivity between
all our wine sites, it's transport independent.
So it doesn't matter what kind of wine links you've got in each different site, which provides Internet
or going over ampules or whatever, any kind of connection the wine will work with.
It gives simplified and centralized integrated operations, which gives you more flexibility because
it's transport independent.
It's easy to migrate your wine services.
You get the required predictable performance for your important applications because it is application
of where it integrates with the latest cloud on network technologies to routers that SD wan can control.
You can have those on premises in your branch.
You can also have cloud based routers controlled by Iran as well.
So if you're using a popular public cloud provider like AWG or Microsoft as you are, you can have virtual
routers in the cloud being controlled by Iran.
And because you've got all this flexibility and it makes your operations easier, that gives you a lower
cost solution.
So let's look at how the solution actually works now.
The first four main components down at the bottom in the data point, we've got our edge rotors that
can be Vejvoda originally from the tower, or it can be various different models of Shishko as well,
and which can be physical or virtual rotors.
Then we need to have our different components which are controlling the solution.
And these all run a separate virtual machines.
So Phurba control plane, we have got the Vermaak controller then for management.
We have got the Vonage Annemasse system and for orchestration we have got the V Bond orchestrator and
this solution can scale.
So if you've got a larger environment, you can just add more hours into deploying more v smart controllers
in the control plane, more V manage animes systems and more Vyborg orchestras.
So let's look at each of those in a bit more detail to your viewers, Ron, the plane, they are in
charge of forwarding the actual pockets.
They can be physical or virtual routers, and they form an IP check encrypted data plane between each
other.
So each time a new one site comes online, it will form VPN tunnels to your other one site and a site
can have two veg rotors for redundancy.
Next up, we've got the control plan, we've got our v smart controllers there they are the centralized
brain of the solution.
They run as virtual machines and they distribute policy and forwarding information to the voters.
And that information is sent inside tunnels.
This is where you're running the control plane.
So this is where it's going to build all the routes between the different writers.
And it tells the how to do that and how far we're traffic between each other, each village, or connects
to TUV smart controllers for redundancy for them.
The management plan is Vonage and SMS enabled centralized configuration on simplified changes.
It also has real time alerting again, it runs as a virtual machine and these can be clustered for redundancy.
So when you're interacting with Estulin, you're going to log into the guey on Vonage.
That's where you can figure out everything from.
Finally, we have the Vyborg and orchestrator that authenticates all these smart controllers, Vonage
Annemasse and viewers that joining the Ask One network enables voters to discover each other, Vonage
and the Smart.
It has a public IP address and is deployed in the DMZ.
So you might be wondering, because I know I was when I first saw this and I saw the architecture,
I thought, OK, I understand why we have Vonage, which is where we managed everything that gives us
our admin guey.
And I understand we've got the controller there as well.
Why do we also need an orchestrator?
Why can't the control plane or the management plane do that for us already?
Well, the reason is that they will typically be deployed in your data center.
So when a village or first comes online, it needs a way to connect into the solution to Deanwood,
its configuration.
It needs to discover all of the other devices.
And with your other devices being in a data center, that's not going to work because it's not going
to allow incoming connections coming in there.
So this is why we have the orchestra.
It pulls everything together and it provides connectivity between everything.
It's in the DMZ with a public IP address.
So when a village or first comes online, it's able to connect to the deboned orchestrator.
It finds all the other components from their viewpoint.
Orchester also runs as a virtual machine, can also be run on a and smaller deployments on multiple
deboned orchestrators can be deployed with Round-Robin DNS for redundancy.
Zeti is our zero touch provisioning service.
This is a cloud based church service hosted by Cisco and it's utilized on 1st of the village are only
misdirects vegetative, born to hawkishly joining to the network.
So when you got your first ticket, the box, if it's a physical error and have it plugged, then it's
going to come online.
It's going to connect to the cloud based service at Cisco, which is going to tell it how to get to
its vaunt and orchestrator.
The bond markets, they are venters how to get to the other components, then downloads its configuration,
sets up the tunnels and you're good to go bond.
Vishwa and Vonage can be deployed on premises or they can be hosted in the cloud, either with Cisco
or with one of Cisco's partners.
Most deployments are in the cloud because it's an easier solution for the customer.
Let's look at building the airplane next to the Vishwa controller directs village Earth to build a fuel
marsh by default of Ipecac VPE tunnels between each other.
So by default, it will have a full Masche.
If you want to, you can configure this to be a hub and spoke or any other topology that you want.
The smart then propagates policy and routing information to the voters and that is done through the
Wempe Overlay Management protocol.
She can see in my diagram here I've got my V smart controller.
Now, you would actually have two of these for redundancy, but I just put one in just to make the diagram
easier to look at.
And you can see we've got our vegetables here which are in our different wine sites and in my example,
very each connected with an Internet wine connection and also emplace wine as well.
So what happens is the drivers come online.
They're then told by these ATP service about how to reach the vaunt orchestrator, which tells them
how to reach the smart controller.
Then they will build VPN tunnels to each other with the information from the smart controller.
The smart controller will also tell them what and host IP addresses are available in each site as well.
So that builds the routing tables on the rotors.
Next thing, we have bidirectional foreboding detection pockets sent over each of those VPN tunnels
that is used to detect if a tunnel goes down, speechwriter's got a tunnel going to every other year
by default and over all the different wine links as well.
BFD, pockets of sent over all those links regularly to check.
And we get packets going in both directions.
But we can detect if a link goes down, it will be taken out of service until it comes back up again.
The BFD packets also provide latency, jitter and loss statistics as well, which we can use to direct
pockets for different applications over the most suitable connection.
If multiple tunnels are available, for example, we've got apps and Internet as well, and traffic
can be more advanced over those different tunnels for your load balancing algorithms, you can use active,
active where you send equally overboard or you can do we active, active.
So if, for example, you want to send more traffic over your ampules connection because it's higher
quality than Internet, then you can do that with an active active.
You can also do application pinning active standby so you could send maybe email and web traffic over
one connection voice and video traffic over a different connection.
Also, sports application aware we're doing what we can see how that works.
So, as I said earlier, the FDA monitors the latency, jitter and loss across four different VPN tunnels.
You can set minimum requirements for an application with an SLA service level agreement class.
Actually, one ensures the application is sent over a link which meets his actually requirements.
So if, for example, you are sending voice and video traffic over your WAN links, you can share required
latency and launch to make sure that your calls are good enough quality.
Actually, one is monitoring the QOL statistics over your links in real time and it will make sure that
voice and video is over the most suitable link.
By default, traffic will fall back to another link if no suitable link is available.
So if you've got the two links that are available and neither of them match the the required statistics,
it doesn't mean the topic.
It's going to get dropped.
It will still go over the best time.
OK, that was everything I need to tell you about SD one.
She in the next Licia.